ID -> Integer
MV -> Categorical
SR -> Numerical
NR -> Numerical
TR -> Categorical
VR -> Categorical
SUR1 -> Categorical
SUR2 -> Categorical
SUR3 -> Categorical
UR -> Categorical
FR -> Categorical
OR -> Numerical
RR -> Ordinal;
BR -> Ordinal;
MR -> Categorical
CR -> Categorical
Green frogs -> Categorical; Label 1
Brown frogs -> Categorical; Label 2
Common toad -> Categorical; Label 3
Fire-bellied toad -> Categorical; Label 4
Tree frog -> Categorical; Label 5
Common newt -> Categorical; Label 6
Great crested newt -> Categorical; Label 7

Name and symbol type description:
1) ID – vector ID (not used in the calculations)
2) MV – motorway (not used in the calculations)
3) SR -> Surface of water reservoir numeric [m2]
4) NR -> Number of water reservoirs in habitat - Comment: The larger the number of reservoirs, the more likely it is that some of them will be suitable for amphibian breeding.

5) TR -> Type of water reservoirs:
a. reservoirs with natural features that are natural or anthropogenic water reservoirs (e.g., subsidence post-exploited water reservoirs), not subjected to naturalization
b. recently formed reservoirs, not subjected to naturalization
c. settling ponds
d. water reservoirs located near houses
e. technological water reservoirs
f. water reservoirs in allotment gardens
g. trenches
h. wet meadows, flood plains, marshes
i. river valleys
j. streams and very small watercourses

6) VR - Presence of vegetation within the reservoirs:
a. no vegetation
b. narrow patches at the edges
c. areas heavily overgrown
d. lush vegetation within the reservoir with some part devoid of vegetation
e. reservoirs completely overgrown with a disappearing water table
Comment: The vegetation in the reservoir favors amphibians, facilitates breeding, and allows the larvae to feed and give shelter. However, excess vegetation can lead to the overgrowth of the pond and water shortages.

7) SUR1 - Surroundings 1—the dominant types of land cover surrounding the water reservoir
8) SUR2 - Surroundings 2—the second most dominant types of land cover surrounding the water reservoir
9) SUR3 - Surroundings 3—the third most dominant types of land cover surrounding the water reservoir
Comment: The “surroundings” feature was designated in three stages. First, the dominant surroundings were selected. Then, two secondary types were chosen.
a. forest areas (with meadows) and densely wooded areas
b. areas of wasteland and meadows
c. allotment gardens
d. parks and green areas
e. dense building development, industrial areas
f. dispersed habitation, orchards, gardens
g. river valleys
h. roads, streets
i. agricultural land
The most valuable surroundings of water reservoirs for amphibians are areas with the least anthropopressure and proper moisture.

10) UR - Use of water reservoirs:
a. unused by man (very attractive for amphibians)
b. recreational and scenic (care work is performed)
c. used economically (often fish farming)
d. technological

11) FR - The presence of fishing:
a. lack of or occasional fishing
b. intense fishing
c. breeding reservoirs
Comment: The presence of a large amount of fishing, in particular predatory and intense fishing, is not conducive to the presence of amphibians.

12) OR - Percentage access from the edges of the reservoir to undeveloped areas (the proposed percentage ranges are a numerical reflection of the phrases: lack of access, low access, medium access, large access to free space):
a. 0–25%—lack of access or poor access
b. 25–50%—low access
c. 50–75%—medium access,
d. 75–100%—large access to terrestrial habitats of the shoreline is in contact with the terrestrial habitat of amphibians.

13) RR Minimum distance from the water reservoir to roads:
a. <50 m
b. 50–100 m
c. 100–200 m
d. 200–500 m
e. 500–1000 m
f. >1000 m
Comment: The greater the distance between the reservoir and the road, the more safety for amphibians.

14) BR - Building development - Minimum distance to buildings:
a. <50 m
b. 50–100 m
c. 100–200 m
d. 200–500 m
e. 500–1000 m
f. >1000 m
Comment: The more distant the buildings, the more favorable the conditions for the occurrence of amphibians.

15) MR - Maintenance status of the reservoir:
a. Clean
b. slightly littered
c. reservoirs heavily or very heavily littered
Comment: Trash causes devastation of the reservoir ecosystem. Backfilling and leveling of water reservoirs with ground and debris should also be considered.

16) CR - Type of shore
a. Natural
b. Concrete
Comment: A concrete shore of a reservoir is not attractive for amphibians. A vertical concrete shore is usually a barrier for amphibians when they try to leave the water.

17) Label 1 – the presence of Green frogs
18) Label 2 – the presence of Brown frogs
19) Label 3 – the presence of Common toad
20) Label 4 – the presence of Fire-bellied toad
21) Label 5 – the presence of Tree frog
22) Label 6 – the presence of Common newt
23) Label 7 – the presence of Great crested newt 